[KOGUMA]
Hmm?
[KOGUMA] In a distant place, the
cherry blossoms are blooming.
And we've all made up
our minds to go see them.
Before long, more will bloom,
including the ones here.
Maybe even while
we're traveling.
But that's exactly why
we need to leave now.
We want to see the first
glimpse of spring in winter.
And our window is closing.
We hatched this plan
less than two days ago,
and we're already done
preparing for the trip.
We packed as light as we could
and loaded up my Cub.
We can stop at net cafés
and business hotels to sleep.
[KOGUMA]
Be back soon.
We haven't decided on the route.
We just know we're
going as far as we can,
to where the cherry
blossoms are blooming.
Hey, you two.
[KOGUMA] And we know
we'll be setting out today.
[KOGUMA]
To go and seize spring.
[KOGUMA slurps]
[SHII'S FATHER]
Girls.
I'd like you to
take this with you.
I made komisbrot,
military-style rye bread.
Ah!
[SHII'S FATHER] It'll keep
better than normal bread.
[REIKO]
Awesome! Thank you so much!
[SHII'S FATHER]
Not at all.
[SHII]
Mama?
I'll have Koguma to keep me
safe, so I promise I'll be okay.
And I'm gonna have
Shii protecting me,
so I'll be just fine.
I know I can
count on my Super Cub.
[SHII] Mm! So whatever happens,
we'll be great,
because we have the Super Cub!
[REIKO] My Hunter Cub
is better. But still!
[KOGUMA sighs]
[REIKO]
Okay!
I think it's about that time.
Ah?
Have a good trip.
Be safe, okay?
Promise.
[SHII]
See you soon!
[REIKO] If we turn right
and follow the Fuji River
south from Nirasaki,
we'll get to Shizuoka
in about three hours.
We could keep following the
coast and see cherry blossoms
in bloom before the day's out.
But we won't.
[REIKO] That's right!
It would defeat the purpose!
Exactly. We're gonna chase
spring as far as we can.
Right!
Ah...!
Are we stopping already?
But it feels like it's barely
been an hour since we left.
When you're making
a long trip on a bike,
it's important to keep a careful
eye out for any issues
that appear in the first hour.
That's when all
the major problems show up.
"The devil's 60."
[KOGUMA] That's why we needed
to stop after our first hour
on the road,
and do a quick inspection.
And if everything
checks out here,
we should be good for the trip.
Then, it'll be smooth
sailing the whole way,
whether it's a dozen
hours or a hundred.
Though... It's mostly
just biker superstition.
Oh, is that right?
Anyway... This is
the first time I've traveled
the Koshu Highway to its end.
Time to start the next leg,
and we have a choice.
Which way now?
[KOGUMA] I say we continue
along this route to Shiojiri.
Hop on National Route 19,
keep going through the mountains
in Kiso all the way down
to the Chuo Main Line,
and follow the tracks to Nagoya.
We need to get at least that
far by sundown, don't we?
Right. If we stick
to the train route,
we can deal with
any issues that arise.
That's one way we could go.
Or we could ride through the
salt spray of the Sea of Japan.
Which would be dangerous.
Plus, you know that the ocean
spray won't be good for
the pressed steel
frames of our Cubs.
[REIKO]
Hmm.
[SHII groans] Well, if it were
up to me, I'd side with Koguma.
Fine, then. Okay.
Let's hit the road!
Huh? Really?
[REIKO]
It's fine.
I can take the sea route
anytime I want.
[SHII]
Hmm!
Ah...!
Ah?
Ah!
The Nakasendo was one of
five routes established in
the Edo Period, so it
has a ton of rest stops.
Really?
And a lot of the old
teahouses are still open.
You should take a look,
for some inspiration.
Ah!
I get it. That's why
we came this way.
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
[SHII groans]
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
We need to eat!
[REIKO groans]
So what sounds good?
We have options.
We shouldn't waste money.
[REIKO] Ugh! You wanna
cook rice out here?
[SHII]
Um...
If you wouldn't mind,
I'll happily take care of lunch.
[REIKO chuckles]
[SHII]
Thank you for waiting.
[REIKO]
Ooh!
I topped it with cream cheese,
and I'm sure you'll both enjoy
the way the flavor pairs up with
the Kiso smoked salmon I bought.
This is wonderful!
Yum! It's like I'm on
the Eastern Front!
Now all we need is some peas and
bacon from the goulash cannon.
Glad you like it.
Ah! There's Lake Biwa!
[KOGUMA]
Hmm!
Whoa, dinner's done already?
Nice! Let's eat!
[KOGUMA]
You're dripping everywhere.
Go finish toweling off
and get dressed.
Gah! I'm telling you, curry is
meant to be eaten in the nude!
In the summer, I've heard
they hold a huge gathering
of Cub owners here in this park.
Gathering?
More than 400
different Cubs show up.
There are lots of vintage
ones and rare models, too.
[SHII]
Wow.
[REIKO] Ever since
I started riding my Cub,
I always wanted to attend.
I'd like to go, too.
[KOGUMA]
Mm-hmm.
[KOGUMA] I hope summer doesn't
come late this year.
Ah!
[SHII] So, the Sea of Japan
doesn't seem to have
any salt spray.
[REIKO]
That's too bad.
[KOGUMA]
That's good.
If Reiko saw
a huge wave roll in,
she might try and sell her
Hunter Cub on the spot.
Then she'd use the money
to buy a surfboard.
Um. I'm gonna say that's exactly
the kind of thing you would do.
That's ridiculous. How would
I get back home if I did?
And compared to my Cub...
[KOGUMA] What do you think
I could get for it, though?
[SHII]
Huh?!
[REIKO laughs]
Ah! The Tottori Sand Dunes!
[REIKO, SHII chuckling]
[KOGUMA gulps]
[chuckling continues]
[REIKO]
Whoo! This is a feast!
[SHII]
Just a moment, please!
Aw!
[SHII]
Now say "crabs"!
- [REIKO giggles]
- [SHII laughs]
We finally reached
the far end of Honshu.
Amazing!
It's true--you can go
anywhere in Japan on a Cub.
Not just Japan.
[ship horn blares]
You can go across the ocean.
It looks like more
have bloomed,
in Miyazaki and
Kumamoto this time.
But we've already
decided where we're going.
As far as we can get.
Where the mainland ends.
- [REIKO] Hmm!
- That's right!
Ah...!
Huh?
Well, we're here.
Pretty.
We did it.
We caught spring.
[SHII]
Ah...
When I said we should come
see the cherry blossoms,
I was so sure you would
say it wasn't possible.
Well, I almost did.
But then...
[SHII] I need you and your Super
Cub to rescue me again, okay...?
Just take the cold and
the dark away somewhere...
Anywhere!
Please bring back
spring for me...
[sobs]
That's all I'll ask for...
I'm begging you...
[sobbing]
Sorry...
[sobbing continues]
[KOGUMA] My Cub can
do a lot, but not that.
But it was possible we could.
So I thought,
why not at least try?
[SHII] It's nice having
someone to ride with.
I always rode my bike
by myself, so this was fun!
[BOTH chuckle]
Let's take spring home with us.
We can share it with our town.
[KOGUMA]
By the time we returned,
the barren winter scenes we'd
left were nowhere to be found.
The cherry blossoms
have bloomed,
the sun shimmers on
the water's surface,
and the hills glow
emerald green.
Spring has finally come.
Or rather,
we've brought it home.
It's definitely spring, now.
[BOTH]
Hmm?
[phone buzzing]
[KOGUMA]
Hmm?
[buzzing continues]
Hi, Shii.
Huh?
[KOGUMA]
Hmm!
Did you buy this Little Cub?
Oh, well. I was planning
to ask the two of you
before I picked anything out.
But we went to
check out their inventory,
and I couldn't resist!
[REIKO] Ooh! Look at Shii,
dropping stacks on her new bike!
It was on clearance,
and I managed to talk them down
a bit more.
So at that price, I had
enough to cover half of it.
Papa agreed to lend me
the rest, as long as I could
pay him back by graduation.
You can get back to work on
your Italian café project now!
[SHII] Mm! If I have a Cub, I
can go shopping anywhere I want!
Motorbikes are a
lot of fun in the spring.
That's why so many
are out there.
Be careful on the road.
Then there's summer,
and don't expect the breeze
to keep you cool
when you're riding.
You'll pass out from heat
exhaustion before you can blink.
And then back
to autumn and winter.
It's long and cold and...
[SHII whimpering]
[BOTH laugh]
[ALL laughing]
[KOGUMA]
I have no parents.
No money.
No hobbies.
No close friends.
No real goals.
But things have changed
a bit because I am more
than nothing, now.
Is that...
because I found my Cub?
No...
A Cub can't do anything
for you on its own.
You have to wanna do
something for yourself, first.
[KOGUMA]
Something like...
...turning an unfamiliar corner,
when you've always
gone straight before.
It can be as small as that.
And when you decide,
the Cub will help you.
[KOGUMA] There's nothing
magical about it.
But when there's
a tough obstacle,
or when someone's counting on
you to take care of something,
it will always be at your side.
That's what our bikes
mean to us.
[KOGUMA]
I'll keep riding forever.
Me...
...and my Super Cub.